Vector Packet Processing
========================

## Introduction.

The VPP platform is an extensible framework that provides out-of-the-box
production quality switch/router functionality. It is the open source version
of Cisco's Vector Packet Processing (VPP) technology: a high performance,
packet-processing stack that can run on commodity CPUs.

The benefits of this implementation of VPP are its high performance, proven
technology, its modularity and flexibility, and rich feature set.

For more information on VPP and its features please visit the
[FD.io website](http://fd.io/) and
[What is VPP?](https://wiki.fd.io/view/VPP/What_is_VPP%3F) pages.


## Directory layout.

Directory name         | Description
---------------------- | -------------------------------------------
     build-data        | Build metadata
     build-root        | Build output directory
     doxygen           | Documentation generator configuration
     dpdk              | DPDK patches and build infrastructure
     g2                | Event log visualization tool
     gmod              | perf related?
     perftool          | Performance tool
     sample-plugin     | A sample plugin
@ref svm               | Shared virtual memory allocation library
     test              | Unit tests
@ref vlib              | VPP application library source
@ref vlib-api          | VPP API library source
@ref vnet              | VPP networking source
@ref vpp               | VPP application source
@ref vpp-api           | VPP application API source
     vppapigen         | VPP API generator source
     vpp-api-test      | VPP API test program source
@ref vppinfra          | VPP core library source

(If the page you are viewing is not generated by Doxygen then
ignore any @@ref labels in the above table.)


## Getting started.

In general anyone interested in building, developing or running VPP should
consult the [VPP wiki](https://wiki.fd.io/view/VPP) for more complete
documentation.

In particular, readers are recommended to take a look at [Pulling, Building,
Running, Hacking, Pushing](https://wiki.fd.io/view/VPP/Pulling,_Building,_Run
ning,_Hacking_and_Pushing_VPP_Code) which provides extensive step-by-step
coverage of the topic.

For the impatient, some salient information is distilled below.


### Quick-start: On an existing Linux host.

To install system dependencies, build VPP and then install it, simply run the
build script. This should be performed a non-privileged user with `sudo`
access from the project base directory:

    ./build-root/vagrant/build.sh

If you want a more fine-grained approach because you intend to do some
development work, the `Makefile` in the root directory of the source tree
provides several convenience shortcuts as `make` targets that may be of
interest. To see the available targets run:

    make


### Quick-start: Vagrant.

The directory `build-root/vagrant` contains a `VagrantFile` and supporting
scripts to bootstrap a working VPP inside a Vagrant-managed Virtual Machine.
This VM can then be used to test concepts with VPP or as a development
platform to extend VPP. Some obvious caveats apply when using a VM for VPP
since its performance will never match that of bare metal; if your work is
timing or performance sensitive, consider using bare metal in addition or
instead of the VM.

For this to work you will need a working installation of Vagrant. Instructions
for this can be found [on the Setting up Vagrant wiki page]
(https://wiki.fd.io/view/DEV/Setting_Up_Vagrant).


## More information.

Visit the [VPP wiki](https://wiki.fd.io/view/VPP) for details on more
advanced building strategies and development notes.

