Release notes for VPP 20.05
===========================

More than 751 commits since the 20.01 release.

Release Highlights
------------------

Feature Highlights
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As per commits involving FEATURE.yaml edits between the previous release
and this release. They are mentioned in the below “features” section as
well, together with the corresponding commits.

-  TAP Drivers

   -  Implement sw_interface_tap_v2_dump filtering by sw_if_index
   -  Add support for persistence

-  Native Virtio Drivers

   -  Support virtio 1.1 packed ring in vhost

-  gso

   -  Add support for IP-IP
   -  Add vxlan tunnel support

-  VRRP

   -  Add plugin providing VRRP support

Ongoing Work On More Semantic-Typed API
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This release, like the 20.01, continues the journey on defining the
semantic-based types instead of storage-based types within the API, so
you may have noticed this in the API changes.

Some of the changes are related to the infrastructure, and may be
bugfixes, they do not change the CRC of the message but affect the
representation on the wire. One particular commit we want you to pay
attention to, is
`b5c0d35f <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=b5c0d35f>`__,
which fixes the bug with the enum representation on the wire - before
it, even the enums declared as u8 or u16 were represented as u32 in the
API messages.

Another important commit we would like to call out explicitly as well is
`7dd63e5c <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=7dd63e5c>`__,
which pinned the address_family and ip_proto enum types to be u8 instead
of the default u32.

The above two commits will be primarily interesting for those who work
with the low-level APIs on VPP - the API frameworks should make these
under-the-hood changes transparent. However, we decided to call these
out, given that for those affected these will be pretty important
changes.

Another commit, that does not have the immediate impact at the moment,
but that is poised to improve the user interaction with the API is
`5c318c70 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=5c318c70>`__.
This adds the tooling and ability to implement a structured process, by
which the API messages can evolve, while minimizing the impact to the
API users.

Features
--------

-  Binary API Compiler for Python

   -  Api crc checker (5c318c70d)

-  Binary API Libraries

   -  Add macro that zeros out api reply buffer (f24de1795)

-  Build System

   -  Add snap packaging (experimental) (6d97e62c0)
   -  Support arch-specific compiling for Neoverse N1 (690ce8672)

-  Crypto native Plugin

   -  Add ARMv8 AES-CBC implementation (776644efe)
   -  Add AArch64 AES-GCM native implementation (622b5ce61)
   -  Calculate ghash using vpclmulqdq instructions (627fb6a16)
   -  GCM implementation with vector AESNI instructions (47d8f5dcd)

-  Infrastructure Library

   -  Add x86 CPU definitions (38e0413b2)
   -  Numa vector placement support (a690fdbfe)
   -  Add cmake option to grow vectors by 1 (98bd75778)
   -  Add tw_timer_2t_2w_512sl variant (907678977)

-  Link Bonding

   -  Add GSO support (2e1fa54b7)

-  Plugins

   -  DPDK

      -  Output switch information (2347278d9)
      -  Use port_id as interface name suffix for representors
         (a80f8f371)
      -  Add iova-mode to startup (4e96ddaec)
      -  Bump DPDK version to 20.02 (76be887d8)
      -  Enable DPDK iAVF PMD (162ea767c)
      -  DPDK 20.05 iavf flow director backporting to DPDK 20.02
         (7f83738b4)

   -  GTPU

      -  Offload RX flow (00fdf53c7)
      -  RX offload for IPv6 payload supporting (ed63a0ff7)

   -  Host Stack Applications

      -  Proxy rcv wnd update acks after full fifos (dda2dbeda)

   -  IPv6 Segment Routing Mobile

      -  Support GTP4/6.DT and User Plane message mapping (9e722bd46)

   -  Internet Key Exchange (IKEv2) Protocol

      -  Configure a profile with an existing interface (44476c6b2)
      -  Responder honours the protected tunnel config (685001f0a)
      -  Add support for custom ipsec-over-udp port (e5d34919b)
      -  Dead peer detection (c415d0a8e)

   -  NAT

      -  In2out-output nodes work with acl reflect (d539e256b)
      -  Api & cli command for forcing session cleanup (edf777272)
      -  Dslite ce mode in separate config entry (958919f36)

   -  QUIC protocol

      -  Update quicly to v0.0.10-VPP (62b1cea6e)
      -  Quicly crypto offloading (92de6b65b)
      -  Check quicly version tag at compile time (ffdc72da4)

   -  RDMA (ibverb) driver

      -  Bunp rdma-core version to v28.0 (eb89b9093)
      -  Add Mellanox mlx5 Direct Verbs receive support (dd648aac0)
      -  Introduce direct verb for Cx4/5 tx (dc812d9a7)

   -  Unicast Reverse Path forwarding

      -  Unicast reverse Path Forwarding (plugin) (d724e4f43)

   -  VRRP

      -  Add plugin providing vrrp support (39e9428b9)

-  SVM Library

   -  Numa awareness for ssvm segments (6fe8998fe)
   -  Support multi-chunk fifo chunk alloc (8e755a16a)
   -  Chunk alloc stats (d35887297)
   -  New FIFO design/architecture (f22f4e562)
   -  Fifo test (64e96613d)

-  Test Infrastructure

   -  Add running_gcov_tests to framework.py (d498c9eb2)
   -  Implement ipaddress convenience methods (e64e5fff4)

-  VNET

   -  Crypto Infra

      -  Add chained buffer support in ipsecmb (AES-GCM) (2fc409131)
      -  Add support for testing quad loops in crypto algos (a9075dcf6)
      -  Introduce async crypto infra (f539578ba)

   -  Ethernet

      -  Configure system default ethernet MTU (5fa452554)

   -  FLOW

      -  Add vlan tagged types for IPv4/IPv6 5-tuple flows (f13830ce7)
      -  Add RSS support (24e2c50bf)
      -  Add l2tpv3oip flow (8b43aaaf1)

   -  GRE

      -  Tunnel encap/decap flags (e5b94dded)

   -  GSO

      -  Add vxlan tunnel support (0b04209ed)
      -  Add support for IP-IP (84f91fa9c)

   -  IP Neighbors

      -  Populate neighbor age via API (9c1928f81)
      -  Replace feature for the ip-neighbor data-base (c87fbb417)
      -  Add flush API (240dcb24a)

   -  IPIP

      -  Multi-point interface (14053c9db)

   -  IPSec

      -  Add support for chained buffers (efcad1a9d)
      -  IPSec protection for multi-point tunnel interfaces (282872127)
      -  Add input node bypass/discard functionality (0546483ce)
      -  User can choose the UDP source port (abc5660c6)
      -  Support 4o6 and 6o4 for SPD tunnel mode SAs (b1fd80f09)

   -  IPv4 LPM

      -  More detailed show reassembly commands (a877cf9f3)
      -  Replace Sematics for Interface IP addresses (59f71132e)

   -  MPLS

      -  Add user defined name tag to mpls tunnels (39ae0a07a)

   -  Native Virtio Drivers

      -  Support virtio 1.1 packed ring in vhost (bc0d9ff67)

   -  Packet Generator

      -  Set vnet buffer flags in pg streams (08eb2bb20)

   -  Segment Routing (IPv6 and MPLS)

      -  Change the CLI keyword from address to prefix. (b24e287b9)
      -  Support uSID function. (ec9cb9668)

   -  Session Layer

      -  Tracking segment memory usage (234fe894d)
      -  Basic fifo-tuning-logic (d8f48e216)
      -  Api to add new transport types (07063b8ea)
      -  Support connect on listeners (0a1e183e5)
      -  Adding debug events (7357043d2)
      -  Add option to preallocate fifo headers (9845c20d7)

   -  TAP Drivers

      -  Add support for persistance (b49bc1ae6)
      -  Add initial support for tun (206acf84d)
      -  Implement sw_interface_tap_v2_dump filtering by sw_if_index
         (073d74d0b)

   -  TCP

      -  Add option to avoid endpoint cleanup (43818c1e0)
      -  Minimal set of worker stats (5e6305fb0)
      -  Allow custom mss on connects (ff19e3bf4)

   -  TLS and TLS engine plugins

      -  Picotls engine symmetric crypto enhancement by VPP crypto
         framework (3b8518164)

   -  UDP

      -  Track connection port sharing (a039620c2)

-  VPP Comms Library

   -  Udp session migration notifications (68b7e5888)
   -  Propagate cleanup notifications to apps (9ace36d0f)

-  Vector Library

   -  Add plugin override support (8dc954a4e)
   -  Calculate per-worker loops/second metric (000a029e4)
   -  Leave SIGPROF signal with its default handler (6f533d780)
   -  Add nosyslog unix option (e31820af1)

-  Gomemif

   -  Introduce gomemif (07363a45f)

Known issues
------------

For the full list of issues please refer to fd.io
`JIRA <https://jira.fd.io>`__.

Fixed issues
------------

For the full list of fixed issues please refer to:

- fd.io `JIRA <https://jira.fd.io>`__
- git `commit log <https://git.fd.io/vpp/log/?h=stable/2005>`__


API changes
-----------

Description of results:

-  *Definition changed*: indicates that the API file was modified
   between releases.
-  *Only in image*: indicates the API is new for this release.
-  *Only in file*: indicates the API has been removed in this release.

======================================== ==================
Message Name                             Result
======================================== ==================
acl_add_replace                          definition changed
acl_details                              definition changed
acl_interface_add_del                    definition changed
acl_interface_etype_whitelist_details    definition changed
acl_interface_etype_whitelist_dump       definition changed
acl_interface_list_details               definition changed
acl_interface_list_dump                  definition changed
acl_interface_set_acl_list               definition changed
acl_interface_set_etype_whitelist        definition changed
add_node_next                            definition changed
app_attach                               definition changed
app_attach_reply                         definition changed
app_cut_through_registration_add         only in file
app_cut_through_registration_add_reply   only in file
app_namespace_add_del                    definition changed
app_worker_add_del                       definition changed
app_worker_add_del_reply                 definition changed
application_attach                       only in file
application_attach_reply                 only in file
bd_ip_mac_add_del                        definition changed
bind_sock                                only in file
bind_sock_reply                          only in file
bind_uri                                 only in file
bind_uri_reply                           only in file
bridge_domain_add_del                    definition changed
bridge_domain_details                    definition changed
bridge_domain_dump                       definition changed
bridge_flags                             definition changed
bvi_create_reply                         definition changed
bvi_delete                               definition changed
connect_sock                             only in file
connect_sock_reply                       only in file
connect_uri                              only in file
connect_uri_reply                        only in file
create_vhost_user_if                     definition changed
disconnect_session                       only in file
disconnect_session_reply                 only in file
get_next_index                           definition changed
get_node_index                           definition changed
gpe_add_del_fwd_entry                    definition changed
gpe_add_del_iface                        definition changed
gpe_add_del_native_fwd_rpath             definition changed
gpe_enable_disable                       definition changed
gpe_fwd_entries_get_reply                definition changed
gpe_fwd_entry_path_details               definition changed
gpe_native_fwd_rpaths_get                definition changed
gpe_native_fwd_rpaths_get_reply          definition changed
gpe_set_encap_mode                       definition changed
gre_tunnel_add_del                       definition changed
gre_tunnel_details                       definition changed
gtpu_offload_rx                          only in image
gtpu_offload_rx_reply                    only in image
ikev2_profile_set_ipsec_udp_port         only in image
ikev2_profile_set_ipsec_udp_port_reply   only in image
ikev2_profile_set_liveness               only in image
ikev2_profile_set_liveness_reply         only in image
ikev2_profile_set_udp_encap              only in image
ikev2_profile_set_udp_encap_reply        only in image
ikev2_set_local_key                      definition changed
ikev2_set_tunnel_interface               only in image
ikev2_set_tunnel_interface_reply         only in image
ip_neighbor_details                      definition changed
ip_neighbor_flush                        only in image
ip_neighbor_flush_reply                  only in image
ip_neighbor_replace_begin                only in image
ip_neighbor_replace_begin_reply          only in image
ip_neighbor_replace_end                  only in image
ip_neighbor_replace_end_reply            only in image
ip_route_lookup                          only in image
ip_route_lookup_reply                    only in image
ip_source_check_interface_add_del        only in file
ip_source_check_interface_add_del_reply  only in file
ipfix_classify_table_add_del             definition changed
ipfix_classify_table_details             definition changed
ipip_add_tunnel                          definition changed
ipip_tunnel_details                      definition changed
ipsec_backend_details                    definition changed
ipsec_interface_add_del_spd              definition changed
ipsec_sa_details                         definition changed
ipsec_sad_entry_add_del                  definition changed
ipsec_select_backend                     definition changed
ipsec_spd_add_del                        definition changed
ipsec_spd_details                        definition changed
ipsec_spd_entry_add_del                  definition changed
ipsec_spd_interface_details              definition changed
ipsec_tunnel_if_add_del                  definition changed
ipsec_tunnel_if_add_del_reply            definition changed
ipsec_tunnel_if_set_sa                   definition changed
ipsec_tunnel_protect_del                 definition changed
ipsec_tunnel_protect_details             definition changed
ipsec_tunnel_protect_update              definition changed
l2_fib_table_details                     definition changed
l2_flags                                 definition changed
l2_interface_efp_filter                  definition changed
l2_interface_pbb_tag_rewrite             definition changed
l2_interface_vlan_tag_rewrite            definition changed
l2_macs_event                            definition changed
l2_patch_add_del                         definition changed
l2_xconnect_details                      definition changed
l2fib_add_del                            definition changed
l2fib_flush_int                          definition changed
lisp_add_del_adjacency                   definition changed
lisp_add_del_local_eid                   definition changed
lisp_add_del_locator                     definition changed
lisp_add_del_locator_set                 definition changed
lisp_add_del_map_request_itr_rlocs       definition changed
lisp_add_del_map_resolver                definition changed
lisp_add_del_map_server                  definition changed
lisp_add_del_remote_mapping              definition changed
lisp_adjacencies_get_reply               definition changed
lisp_eid_table_add_del_map               definition changed
lisp_eid_table_details                   definition changed
lisp_eid_table_dump                      definition changed
lisp_eid_table_map_dump                  definition changed
lisp_enable_disable                      definition changed
lisp_get_map_request_itr_rlocs_reply     definition changed
lisp_locator_details                     definition changed
lisp_locator_dump                        definition changed
lisp_locator_set_details                 definition changed
lisp_locator_set_dump                    definition changed
lisp_map_register_enable_disable         definition changed
lisp_map_request_mode                    definition changed
lisp_map_resolver_details                definition changed
lisp_map_server_details                  definition changed
lisp_pitr_set_locator_set                definition changed
lisp_rloc_probe_enable_disable           definition changed
lisp_use_petr                            definition changed
lldp_config                              definition changed
macip_acl_add                            definition changed
macip_acl_add_replace                    definition changed
macip_acl_details                        definition changed
macip_acl_interface_add_del              definition changed
macip_acl_interface_list_details         definition changed
macip_acl_interface_list_dump            definition changed
map_another_segment                      only in file
map_another_segment_reply                only in file
modify_vhost_user_if                     definition changed
mpls_tunnel_add_del                      definition changed
mpls_tunnel_details                      definition changed
nat44_del_user                           only in image
nat44_del_user_reply                     only in image
nat44_session_cleanup                    only in image
nat44_session_cleanup_reply              only in image
nat44_set_session_limit                  only in image
nat44_set_session_limit_reply            only in image
nat_show_config_reply                    definition changed
netmap_create                            only in file
netmap_create_reply                      only in file
netmap_delete                            only in file
netmap_delete_reply                      only in file
nhrp_details                             only in file
nhrp_dump                                only in file
nhrp_entry_add_del                       only in file
nhrp_entry_add_del_reply                 only in file
one_add_del_adjacency                    definition changed
one_add_del_l2_arp_entry                 definition changed
one_add_del_local_eid                    definition changed
one_add_del_locator                      definition changed
one_add_del_locator_set                  definition changed
one_add_del_map_request_itr_rlocs        definition changed
one_add_del_map_resolver                 definition changed
one_add_del_map_server                   definition changed
one_add_del_ndp_entry                    definition changed
one_add_del_remote_mapping               definition changed
one_adjacencies_get_reply                definition changed
one_eid_table_add_del_map                definition changed
one_eid_table_details                    definition changed
one_eid_table_dump                       definition changed
one_eid_table_map_dump                   definition changed
one_enable_disable                       definition changed
one_enable_disable_petr_mode             definition changed
one_enable_disable_pitr_mode             definition changed
one_enable_disable_xtr_mode              definition changed
one_get_map_request_itr_rlocs_reply      definition changed
one_l2_arp_entries_get_reply             definition changed
one_locator_details                      definition changed
one_locator_dump                         definition changed
one_locator_set_details                  definition changed
one_locator_set_dump                     definition changed
one_map_register_enable_disable          definition changed
one_map_request_mode                     definition changed
one_map_resolver_details                 definition changed
one_map_server_details                   definition changed
one_ndp_entries_get_reply                definition changed
one_nsh_set_locator_set                  definition changed
one_pitr_set_locator_set                 definition changed
one_rloc_probe_enable_disable            definition changed
one_show_petr_mode_reply                 definition changed
one_show_pitr_mode_reply                 definition changed
one_show_xtr_mode_reply                  definition changed
one_stats_details                        definition changed
one_stats_enable_disable                 definition changed
one_use_petr                             definition changed
pg_capture                               definition changed
pg_create_interface                      definition changed
pg_create_interface_reply                definition changed
pg_enable_disable                        definition changed
policer_add_del                          definition changed
policer_details                          definition changed
policer_dump                             definition changed
session_enable_disable                   definition changed
session_rule_add_del                     definition changed
session_rules_details                    definition changed
show_lisp_map_register_state_reply       definition changed
show_lisp_map_request_mode_reply         definition changed
show_lisp_pitr_reply                     definition changed
show_lisp_rloc_probe_state_reply         definition changed
show_lisp_status_reply                   definition changed
show_lisp_use_petr_reply                 definition changed
show_one_map_register_state_reply        definition changed
show_one_map_request_mode_reply          definition changed
show_one_nsh_mapping_reply               definition changed
show_one_pitr_reply                      definition changed
show_one_rloc_probe_state_reply          definition changed
show_one_stats_enable_disable_reply      definition changed
show_one_status_reply                    definition changed
show_one_use_petr_reply                  definition changed
show_threads_reply                       definition changed
sr_localsid_add_del                      definition changed
sr_localsids_details                     definition changed
sr_mpls_policy_add                       definition changed
sr_mpls_policy_assign_endpoint_color     definition changed
sr_mpls_policy_mod                       definition changed
sr_mpls_steering_add_del                 definition changed
sr_policies_details                      definition changed
sr_policy_add                            definition changed
sr_policy_del                            definition changed
sr_policy_mod                            definition changed
sr_set_encap_source                      definition changed
sr_steering_add_del                      definition changed
sr_steering_pol_details                  definition changed
sw_interface_address_replace_begin       only in image
sw_interface_address_replace_begin_reply only in image
sw_interface_address_replace_end         only in image
sw_interface_address_replace_end_reply   only in image
sw_interface_set_l2_bridge               definition changed
sw_interface_set_l2_xconnect             definition changed
sw_interface_set_lldp                    definition changed
sw_interface_set_vpath                   definition changed
sw_interface_set_vxlan_bypass            definition changed
sw_interface_set_vxlan_gpe_bypass        definition changed
sw_interface_span_details                definition changed
sw_interface_span_dump                   definition changed
sw_interface_span_enable_disable         definition changed
teib_details                             only in image
teib_dump                                only in image
teib_entry_add_del                       only in image
teib_entry_add_del_reply                 only in image
unbind_sock                              only in file
unbind_sock_reply                        only in file
unbind_uri                               only in file
unbind_uri_reply                         only in file
unmap_segment                            only in file
unmap_segment_reply                      only in file
urpf_update                              only in image
urpf_update_reply                        only in image
vrrp_vr_add_del                          only in image
vrrp_vr_add_del_reply                    only in image
vrrp_vr_details                          only in image
vrrp_vr_dump                             only in image
vrrp_vr_peer_details                     only in image
vrrp_vr_peer_dump                        only in image
vrrp_vr_set_peers                        only in image
vrrp_vr_set_peers_reply                  only in image
vrrp_vr_start_stop                       only in image
vrrp_vr_start_stop_reply                 only in image
vrrp_vr_track_if_add_del                 only in image
vrrp_vr_track_if_add_del_reply           only in image
vrrp_vr_track_if_details                 only in image
vrrp_vr_track_if_dump                    only in image
vxlan_add_del_tunnel                     definition changed
vxlan_add_del_tunnel_reply               definition changed
vxlan_gpe_add_del_tunnel                 definition changed
vxlan_gpe_add_del_tunnel_reply           definition changed
vxlan_gpe_tunnel_details                 definition changed
vxlan_gpe_tunnel_dump                    definition changed
vxlan_offload_rx                         definition changed
vxlan_tunnel_details                     definition changed
vxlan_tunnel_dump                        definition changed
======================================== ==================

Found 279 api message signature differences

Patches that changed API definitions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``extras/deprecated/dpdk-hqos/api/dpdk.api``

* `548d70de6 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=548d70de6>`_ misc: deprecate dpdk hqos

``extras/deprecated/netmap/netmap.api``

* `7db6ab03d <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=7db6ab03d>`_ misc: deprecate netmap and ixge drivers

``src/vpp/api/vpe.api``

* `933fcf489 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=933fcf489>`_ api: API cleanup
* `7db6ab03d <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=7db6ab03d>`_ misc: deprecate netmap and ixge drivers

``src/vnet/tunnel/tunnel_types.api``

* `14053c9db <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=14053c9db>`_ ipip: Multi-point interface
* `59ff918ea <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=59ff918ea>`_ tunnel: Common types for IP tunnels

``src/vnet/policer/policer_types.api``

* `cd01fb423 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=cd01fb423>`_ policer: API cleanup

``src/vnet/policer/policer.api``

* `cd01fb423 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=cd01fb423>`_ policer: API cleanup

``src/vnet/lisp-gpe/lisp_gpe.api``

* `58db6e16c <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=58db6e16c>`_ lisp: API cleanup

``src/vnet/teib/teib.api``

* `03ce46219 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=03ce46219>`_ teib: Rename NHRP to TEIB

``src/vnet/ip-neighbor/ip_neighbor.api``

* `240dcb24a <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=240dcb24a>`_ ip-neighbor: Add flush API
* `e64e5fff4 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=e64e5fff4>`_ tests: implement ipaddress convenience methods
* `c87fbb417 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=c87fbb417>`_ ip-neighbor: Replace feature for the ip-neighbor data-base
* `8e7fdddd3 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=8e7fdddd3>`_ ip-neighbor: add description to the age parameter
* `9c1928f81 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=9c1928f81>`_ ip-neighbor: populate neighbor age via API

``src/vnet/session/session.api``

* `6fdd7a5f7 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=6fdd7a5f7>`_ session: improve .api comments slightly
* `9845c20d7 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=9845c20d7>`_ session: add option to preallocate fifo headers
* `c0e9441e7 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=c0e9441e7>`_ tests: move defaults from defaultmapping to .api files
* `256779c85 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=256779c85>`_ udp: remove connected udp transport proto
* `888d9f05e <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=888d9f05e>`_ session: remove obsolete apis
* `07063b8ea <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=07063b8ea>`_ session: api to add new transport types
* `b4e5e50fe <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=b4e5e50fe>`_ session: API cleanup
* `2de9c0f92 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=2de9c0f92>`_ svm: minimal initial fifo

``src/vnet/interface_types.api``

* `c4ae0fffb <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=c4ae0fffb>`_ interface: fix interface_types.api enums

``src/vnet/vxlan/vxlan.api``

* `7c0eb56f4 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=7c0eb56f4>`_ vxlan: vxlan/vxlan.api API cleanup

``src/vnet/vxlan-gbp/vxlan_gbp.api``

* `c0e9441e7 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=c0e9441e7>`_ tests: move defaults from defaultmapping to .api files

``src/vnet/gre/gre.api``

* `48ac1c2b2 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=48ac1c2b2>`_ gre: improve .api descriptions
* `8ab4e507c <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=8ab4e507c>`_ gre: add missing .api edits
* `e5b94dded <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=e5b94dded>`_ gre: Tunnel encap/decap flags
* `59ff918ea <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=59ff918ea>`_ tunnel: Common types for IP tunnels

``src/vnet/span/span.api``

* `908965db7 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=908965db7>`_ span: API cleanup

``src/vnet/srv6/sr.api``

* `c0e9441e7 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=c0e9441e7>`_ tests: move defaults from defaultmapping to .api files
* `0938eba15 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=0938eba15>`_ sr: srv6 API cleanup
* `79bfd2725 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=79bfd2725>`_ sr: SRv6 uN behavior

``src/vnet/srv6/sr_types.api``

* `0938eba15 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=0938eba15>`_ sr: srv6 API cleanup

``src/vnet/pg/pg.api``

* `db86329ab <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=db86329ab>`_ pg: API cleanup

``src/vnet/l2/l2.api``

* `c0e9441e7 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=c0e9441e7>`_ tests: move defaults from defaultmapping to .api files
* `145e330f0 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=145e330f0>`_ l2: API cleanup

``src/vnet/lldp/lldp.api``

* `1c684f9af <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=1c684f9af>`_ lldp: API cleanup

``src/vnet/vxlan-gpe/vxlan_gpe.api``

* `1c2002a31 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=1c2002a31>`_ vxlan: vxlan-gpe/vxlan-gpe.cpi API cleanup

``src/vnet/lisp-cp/one.api``

* `58db6e16c <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=58db6e16c>`_ lisp: API cleanup

``src/vnet/lisp-cp/lisp_types.api``

* `58db6e16c <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=58db6e16c>`_ lisp: API cleanup

``src/vnet/lisp-cp/lisp.api``

* `58db6e16c <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=58db6e16c>`_ lisp: API cleanup

``src/vnet/devices/tap/tapv2.api``

* `d88fc0fce <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=d88fc0fce>`_ tap: refactor existing flags
* `073d74d0b <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=073d74d0b>`_ tap: implement sw_interface_tap_v2_dump filtering by sw_if_index
* `206acf84d <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=206acf84d>`_ tap: add initial support for tun
* `b49bc1ae6 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=b49bc1ae6>`_ tap: add support for persistance

``src/vnet/devices/virtio/vhost_user.api``

* `bc0d9ff67 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=bc0d9ff67>`_ virtio: support virtio 1.1 packed ring in vhost

``src/vnet/devices/virtio/virtio.api``

* `53f06a014 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=53f06a014>`_ vlib: move pci api types from vnet/pci to vlib/pci

``src/vnet/ipsec/ipsec_types.api``

* `abc5660c6 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=abc5660c6>`_ ipsec: User can choose the UDP source port
* `287d5e109 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=287d5e109>`_ ipsec: API cleanup
* `5893747d7 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=5893747d7>`_ api: ipsec: add missing IS_INBOUND flag.
* `2fcd265d3 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=2fcd265d3>`_ ipsec: Revert API cleanup
* `666ece35c <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=666ece35c>`_ ipsec: API cleanup

``src/vnet/ipsec/ipsec.api``

* `48d32b43c <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=48d32b43c>`_ ipsec: provide stat index in sa details
* `287d5e109 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=287d5e109>`_ ipsec: API cleanup
* `2fcd265d3 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=2fcd265d3>`_ ipsec: Revert API cleanup
* `666ece35c <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=666ece35c>`_ ipsec: API cleanup
* `282872127 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=282872127>`_ ipsec: IPSec protection for multi-point tunnel interfaces

``src/vnet/ethernet/p2p_ethernet.api``

* `bdfe5955f <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=bdfe5955f>`_ ethernet: add sanity checks to p2p_ethernet_add/del

``src/vnet/bonding/bond.api``

* `c0e9441e7 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=c0e9441e7>`_ tests: move defaults from defaultmapping to .api files

``src/vnet/mpls/mpls.api``

* `c0e9441e7 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=c0e9441e7>`_ tests: move defaults from defaultmapping to .api files
* `39ae0a07a <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=39ae0a07a>`_ mpls: add user defined name tag to mpls tunnels

``src/vnet/syslog/syslog.api``

* `c0e9441e7 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=c0e9441e7>`_ tests: move defaults from defaultmapping to .api files

``src/vnet/interface.api``

* `59f71132e <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=59f71132e>`_ ip: Replace Sematics for Interface IP addresses

``src/vnet/ipip/ipip.api``

* `14053c9db <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=14053c9db>`_ ipip: Multi-point interface
* `59ff918ea <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=59ff918ea>`_ tunnel: Common types for IP tunnels

``src/vnet/srmpls/sr_mpls.api``

* `0938eba15 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=0938eba15>`_ sr: srv6 API cleanup
* `00ec4019b <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=00ec4019b>`_ sr: API cleanup

``src/vnet/ip/ip.api``

* `f5d38e05a <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=f5d38e05a>`_ api: ip: add IP_ROUTE_LOOKUP API
* `c0e9441e7 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=c0e9441e7>`_ tests: move defaults from defaultmapping to .api files
* `d724e4f43 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=d724e4f43>`_ urpf: Unicast reverse Path Forwarding (plugin)

``src/vnet/ip/ip_types.api``

* `164c44f0b <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=164c44f0b>`_ ip: Fix the AH/ESP protocol numbers on the API
* `7dd63e5cc <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=7dd63e5cc>`_ ip: change ip API enums address_family and ip_proto size to u8
* `3ec09e924 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=3ec09e924>`_ ip: ip_address_t uses ip46_address_t

``src/plugins/map/map.api``

* `c0e9441e7 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=c0e9441e7>`_ tests: move defaults from defaultmapping to .api files

``src/plugins/ikev2/ikev2.api``

* `933c4ca5a <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=933c4ca5a>`_ ikev2: fix string in api
* `59fea5a6a <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=59fea5a6a>`_ ikev2: make liveness params configurable
* `8ceb44a89 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=8ceb44a89>`_ ikev2: fix typo in .api description
* `e5d34919b <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=e5d34919b>`_ ikev2: add support for custom ipsec-over-udp port
* `b29d523af <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=b29d523af>`_ ikev2: make UDP encap flag configurable
* `44476c6b2 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=44476c6b2>`_ ikev2: Configure a profile with an existing interface

``src/plugins/urpf/urpf.api``

* `d724e4f43 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=d724e4f43>`_ urpf: Unicast reverse Path Forwarding (plugin)

``src/plugins/lb/lb.api``

* `c0e9441e7 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=c0e9441e7>`_ tests: move defaults from defaultmapping to .api files

``src/plugins/gtpu/gtpu.api``

* `00fdf53c7 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=00fdf53c7>`_ gtpu: offload RX flow

``src/plugins/acl/acl_types.api``

* `2f8cd9145 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=2f8cd9145>`_ acl: API cleanup
* `492a5d0bd <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=492a5d0bd>`_ acl: revert acl: api cleanup
* `aad1ee149 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=aad1ee149>`_ acl: API cleanup

``src/plugins/acl/acl.api``

* `c0e9441e7 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=c0e9441e7>`_ tests: move defaults from defaultmapping to .api files
* `2f8cd9145 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=2f8cd9145>`_ acl: API cleanup
* `492a5d0bd <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=492a5d0bd>`_ acl: revert acl: api cleanup
* `aad1ee149 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=aad1ee149>`_ acl: API cleanup

``src/plugins/nat/dslite/dslite.api``

* `2c6639c69 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=2c6639c69>`_ nat: move dslite to separate sub-plugin

``src/plugins/nat/nat.api``

* `6bb080f1e <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=6bb080f1e>`_ nat: per vrf session limits
* `61717cc38 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=61717cc38>`_ nat: use correct data types for memory sizes
* `98301bd56 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=98301bd56>`_ nat: user deletion function & extra metrics
* `edf777272 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=edf777272>`_ nat: api & cli command for forcing session cleanup
* `2c6639c69 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=2c6639c69>`_ nat: move dslite to separate sub-plugin

``src/plugins/vrrp/vrrp.api``

* `3fccd0278 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=3fccd0278>`_ vrrp: do not define _details as autoreply
* `39e9428b9 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=39e9428b9>`_ vrrp: add plugin providing vrrp support

``src/vlib/pci/pci_types.api``

* `53f06a014 <https://gerrit.fd.io/r/gitweb?p=vpp.git;a=commit;h=53f06a014>`_ vlib: move pci api types from vnet/pci to vlib/pci
